[Music]
nine manicure mistakes you didn't know
you were making according to statistics
from beauty industry experts the average
woman spends approximately $500 per year
on her nails since nail care and nail
art have become popular on social media
it has grasped the attention of the
masses and they've taken an interest in
adapting it to their beauty routine like
keeping yourself a nice manicure without
knowing some key techniques can ruin
your entire image or even worse put your
health at risk here are 9 manicure
mistakes that are often overlooked
before we get started on that perfect
mani don't forget to hit the subscribe
button and ring the notification bell to
join us on the bright side one not
washing your tools sanitizing your tools
should be the first step and your number
one priority according to research the
area around and under our fingernails
stores the largest amount of harmful
bacteria if these tools are not being
washed with disinfectant you are
allowing the spread of germs in risking
contamination in addition stirring tools
in a sealed bag allows bacteria to
fester the best way to store your tools
is in a breathable container and
remember to use disinfectant or alcohol
to clean them before and after each use
[Music]
2 cutting your cuticles you're all
guilty of doing this because we've seen
it done to us on occasion by
professionals however cutting your
cuticles is a major health risk because
you leave unprotected cuts on your
fingers which could potentially get
infected moreover when the cuticles
start growing again they come back flaky
and looking messy which completely ruins
your look if you love the look of nipped
cuticles the best thing to do is use a
rosewood stick and push them back this
will protect your fingernails from
getting an infection while still
achieving the aesthetic look you desire
3 not using a base coat a lot of people
believe that a base coat is unnecessary
and a waste of time
so they skip this step when doing your
manicure however base coats were created
to bind with your natural nails
your manicure last up to one week longer
this happens because our nails produce
natural oils which prevent nail polish
from biting well within nails a base
coat keeps the oils out and keeps the
manicure or gel polish from chipping for
applying thick coats of Polish keep on
like a very pigmented and streak free
look on her nails that can be completed
quickly and that automatically makes us
apply thicker coats of nail polish even
though this may seem the best way to go
it's actually a major mistake when
you're doing your manicure thick coats
of nail polish take twice as long to dry
approximately five to six minutes which
is a recipe for a smudging disaster in
general nail polish is not designed to
dry out when it's thick which protects
it when it's housed in the bottle the
best thing to do is apply three to four
thin layers of nail polish instead of
one or two thick ones five using q-tips
q-tips are proven life savers especially
when it comes to makeup and that's why
we incorporate them into our manicure
routine as well when nail polish gets
onto the skin around the nails you just
get a q-tip and start wiping sadly it
only takes the slightest motion to bring
chaos to the whole look and we have to
start over from the beginning those
cotton fuzzies no matter how many
millimeters they are away from wet nail
polish have a tendency to stick to a
manicure and ruin the whole look instead
of using q-tips use a very thin makeup
brush to clean the area 6 filing back
and forth we've seen both professionals
and amateurs filing their nails back and
forth to get a smooth surface or base
for their manicure but this actually
damages your nails and spoils your whole
manicure filing back and forth causes
micro cracks to appear which makes the
application of nail polish look brittle
and uneven it also weakens the nails
causing them to break more easily filing
should be done in circular motions or
just one direction this will prevent
your nails from weakening and help you
avoid spending money on treatments to
help them recover later
seven not applying polish under the
edges applying nail polish around and
under the edges of your nail will
prevent your manicure from flaking
during various activities that include
water especially doing the dishes and
washing your hair when we do these
activities water gets trapped between
the nail and the nail polish causing it
to lift and chip around the top edges
applying nail polish under the edge of
each nail will seal that area completely
and help your manicure last up to five
days longer eight drying nails in cold
water drying your nails in cold water is
a widely known tip for people who want
to dry their freshly polished nails even
faster however this is just a myth
cold water hardens the nails instead of
drying them the formula of regular nail
polish requires oxygen to dry not liquid
when you dip your fingers in cold water
and wait for them to dry this Pardons
the manicure and causes it to detach
from your nails since it was never
completely dry instead of dipping your
fingers in cold water
let them air dry naturally if you're in
a rush use a fan nine shaking your nail
polish bottle this seems to be common
sense we think shaking our nail polish
bottle distributes the color evenly
especially when the polish is running
low what we didn't know is that by
shaking the nail polish bottle we are
essentially mixing the air trapped
inside the bottle lid the nail polish
which causes tiny bubbles otherwise
known as tiny pockets we start painting
and the polish looks uneven as the
little bubbles transfer from the nail
polish to our fingernails instead of
shaking your nail polish roll it slowly
and horizontally in your hands have you
ever tried any of these tips please
share your experience in the comments
below so that everyone can learn
remember give this video a like share it
with your friends and click subscribe to
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]